foreign
so first of all what we do we're a spend
management platform and we help
companies automate their spend and
expenses across 32 countries so we issue
debit and credit cards and allow
companies to also do bill payments and
reimbursements to employees and about 32
countries today today we're launching in
the US so this is our first day on the
U.S soil
um thank you so why did we decide to
give this talk uh first of all when we
started the company four years ago we
were entering a market category that was
already forming there were already a lot
of VC money on the market and they were
already established competitors that had
actually an idea of how they're going to
do the pricing and the whole Market
category is still emerging three other
Market categories spent management that
are coming from expenses so just regular
travel you have company cars and then
you have bill payments and then to make
things even more complicated for us we
decided to Target companies in 30
countries that are multinational and
fast growing and that really made a big
challenge for us on how we go about
pricing and that's why we decided to
spend a lot of time doing a lot of
iteration on our pricing and we're happy
to share some of the key learnings with
you today
so the first thing is the single most
important business decision in
evaluating a business is pricing power
so water Buffett is talking a lot about
if you're able to increase your prices
by 10 without your company customers
complaining you have an amazing business
if you're very nervous touching your
prices with existing competitors you're
in a very very bad business
So today we're going to go through
several things first of all our journey
on the pricing and what we went through
to nail our pricing strategy and how to
decide between the premium and the
premium then we're going to talk about
the most common pitfalls that we were
very carefully trying to avoid from
other companies in the space that we
have seen before then we're going to
talk about the willingness to pay what
important concept for us especially
merging three Market categories you know
are you more like an expense management
tool are you more like a new bank are
you more more like a procurement
software then we are going to talk about
the right structure and then the
trade-offs we had to make between
premium and premium
so first on the journey the most
important thing for us was you know what
kind of company we want to be you know
you are what you eat in that space so
whatever you charge for customers that
is what you're going to become and there
were some companies that were going with
the freemium model they were mostly
focused on making money from fees on the
cards and other companies were getting
and trying to make money from the SAS
and this kind of a trade-off was quite
important and then the second thing that
we put into the question was what kind
of customers we want to serve at the end
of the day our is our DNA optimized to
serve companies that are you know just
starting their businesses are more
suitable to be serving companies that
are within the Enterprise space and the
final thing that we decided to take into
account is really a triangle called a
trade-off on pricing so in the Triangle
you have at the top acquisition strategy
monetization and retention and when
you're putting together your strategy
you have to pretty much decide is your
pricing strategy for being aggressive
but scanning and going for a position is
it more about monetization and making
the most of the existing of the of the
market or is it about retention of the
existing customers and this kind of a
strategy was very important and we we
did something very unconventional if you
go to startups they usually go with
freemium or you can eat just get the
product and we are going to figure out
the pricing later unfortunately very few
companies are able to recover from this
kind of a start initial premium customer
base and that becomes kind of a
literally a drug that it is really hard
to get out because you see the growth
you see the pace and then you're
concerned what if I charge customers and
drift today they had a great
presentation and this is something that
they really debated at the beginning of
their Journey as well so what we did
very differently is that instead of
going on freemium we decided to focus on
monetization we decided that we don't
care that much about the number of
customers we focus on making the most of
a few customers and making sure we
really understand how to make money into
this space and that was the key part and
then when we got to the stage to be very
strong about how we price after we
actually did 25 different iterations on
our pricing then we decided to do a
blitz scaling strategy and we said okay
now we're going to do a cash back for
our customers that are spending on our
platform we're charging them SAS and
we're giving them 1.5 percent unlimited
cashback up to the amount of their
subscription which means we are now
sponsoring the SAS Park and they can
actually just go and use the product and
the more they use the product the less
they pay which is very good alignment
and this was very different from what
everybody else was doing in the market
going from premium into the premium so
before we started though we want to
share a little bit of the pitfalls that
we have seen before
companies doing in the in the space so
we will go through and they see who is
going to explain a little bit more about
the most common pitfalls in pricing
thanks Mr yes so I will continue with
the most common pitfalls of pricing so I
started looking at a study by Simon fuja
so simaka is the leading consultant firm
for pricing and monetized monetization
strategy and so the study stated that
about 75 of new product launches fail
entirely due to a poorer pricing
strategy and due to customers not being
willing to pay for the product in the
end and then I was looking at the book
monetizing innovation
and the author was looking at those
companies that launched product and
those failed and was trying to
understand the reasons so he was
analyzing um the reasons for the
products that failed and then could see
recurring patterns
and clustered them into four main
pitfalls actually when we developed our
pricing strategy we were reading this
book and this part about the
monetization failures failures helped us
the most because this helped us to
invite all failures we could do in
pricing in advance and so those four
main pitfalls are feature shocks
minivans hidden gems and undeads so
let's start with the feature shock so a
feature shock happens if companies cram
too many features in one solution so the
product becomes kind of over engineered
and so assuming that customers don't
know what they want
um or developing a product before really
thinking about the positioning creates a
solution that does not resonate with a
customer and therefore is perceived as
being overpriced by the customer
so in the end the customer will not be
willing to pay for a product with loads
of features that they are actually not
demanding so one example for this is
Amazon Fire Phone it was launched as a
feature packed product I think with four
cameras 3D technology facial recognition
and so that in the end it was hard to
explain to the customer what really
stands out and what really the features
that are relevant for the customers are
so the product failed
um because customer were not willing to
pay for it they they thought it would be
overpriced
so in the end
um it is much more important that you
create a solution that is really
targeted to to your customer segment and
don't try to build a product that fits
at all solution
so the next uh Pitfall are the
minivations so the term minivations
refers to companies that price their
products too low
so this often happens if product
developers
underestimate the value that the product
really brings to customers so they're in
the end charging two less and the
customer would actually be willing to
pay more for for the product and this
will obviously leave yeah well big
profits on the table
um so one example is playmobil you
probably know the children toys company
and so in 2003 they launched a new
product it was uh Noah's Ark playset and
actually only two months after the
launch it was completely sold out you
could still buy the product on eBay for
actually 33 percent of more of the price
than the original price tag so not only
did they miss out on huge revenues but
also did they even allow customers to
make money off their product because of
a wrong pricing strategy
another example is Audi's SUV it's a Q7
and it was launched in 2006 actually at
the time where gas prices have increased
and the overall demand for large cars
and especially SUVs has decreased
so um they brought the car to market for
a price of 55
000 Euro and then actually the the
demand for the car was about 15 higher
than the projections and so they did
some analysis
and they realized that if they would
have launched the car for 40 58 000 they
would have generated an additional
revenue of 210 million which they now
just left on the table
so the next uh Pitfall are the hidden
gems
so hidden gems are winning Blockbuster
products that never never probably
introduced to the market most of the
time the reason is that it's not in the
in the company's core business or
companies are afraid that it might
cannibalize the existing business one
really classic example here is Kodak
back in I think 1970 and 1973 they had
the digital the technology ready for
digital photography
however they did not launch us because
they were afraid that they were
cannibalize their analog printing
business
and by the way for the hidden gems
so they often often happen when they are
kind some kinds of reflection points so
for example a company goes from offline
to online or a hardware company it
pivots to a software or vice versa
usually at those times there's some it's
those inflection points there are hidden
gems they just need to be uncovered
we come to the last Pitfall of
monetization which are the undeads
so these are products you should have
actually never launched in the market
because they kind of come back to you
and haunt you
and that's a product that in fact let's
say the wrong answer to a right question
or the right answer to a question that
was never asked so basically this means
the customer we're never really
demanding this product
one example here is Google Glass it was
launched and and it was a failure and
the problem with with undeads are that
it distracts the whole business and in
the end it's a really negative impact on
your brand image
yeah thank you Daisy and in our case for
peacock we definitely wanted to make
sure that if we prove the point that
people are willing to buy our software
and we figure out the monetization then
we are sure avoiding and that product
that is on the market then the next
thing is the willingness to pay how much
people are willing to pay for our
solution and when we started building
our willingness to pay we were facing
three different strategies that we can
pursue you know coming from the credit
cards world we can charge per credit
card coming from the expenses world and
expense expense management tools we
could charge per user or coming from the
invoice management we can charge pen
invoices and data extracted and the
willingness to pay for those three
different dimensions is different so we
used what we call the
method to identify the willingness to
pay so this is a method that is actually
asking the customer four different
questions how much they're willing to
pay for the product and it's actually
building this chart to tell you what is
kind of the minimum the optimal price
where you can price your problem and
this is something that we use for the
three different dimensions and we
realized that we can actually uncover
the anchor prices usually the problem
for users is that people in the expense
management World they expect this to be
by active user which is something that
is decreasing the amount of you can
charge companies in the credit card
space they had the anchor price that
usually in Europe credit cards or free
of charge so that's a really bad anchor
price because you can really it's a you
know much harder to move away from
people's perception and then for the
invoice based pricing we were seeing a
very different results in markets like
let's say Eastern Europe where the labor
is um you know cheap and people can just
go and hire somebody for 200 euro who
can go and produce that or in in for
example in the UK where it is a lot more
expensive to hire somebody to do manual
stuff so at the end we decided to also
focus on our
um you know spearhead and you know at
the end of the day as I said you are
what you eat and our Focus was really on
the cards and this is what we selected
then it was decision on picking up the
right pricing structure so usually you
have different strategies you can focus
on maximization penetration skimming
these are the kind of the three
trade-offs I discussed before and very
often what you see in the startup world
is that people go into two different
directions they either go on or you can
eat so they give you everything that you
can get from the pro or they go to the
other side which is kind of an A La
Carte you know build it yourself kind of
solutions with you know 25 toggles and
buttons until you go to the final price
point and in the middle is where a lot
of companies are actually focused on the
customer journey and the value-based
pricing and this is what we identified
in our case that at the end of the day
when we are selling our spearhead which
is company cars we designed our
additions in a way where we can adopt we
can reflect the customer Journey
adoption so for example companies that
are buying credit cards usually start by
giving company credit cards just to the
speed level executive team even though
they're let's say 500 employees company
they just test it with let's say 10
Executives make sure these guys are
happy with it and so on and we decided
instead of fans our cars feature across
the three different editions in the
first edition it is everything you can
get for cards so that is you can grow as
much as you want into the cars Edition
no limitations this is the best solution
for you if you need cards and then what
we started seeing is that these
companies that want to have more people
in their system they start starting
having more users so they said I'm not
going to have everybody in the company
with credit cards but I would like to
have 200 employees to be using the tool
to actually submit the expenses when
they travel and we can go and reimburse
them and that's why in the second
edition we introduce the ability for
them to add the whole company with the
ability to charge charge them per usage
which was the anchor price for that and
then the last step was that people were
saying okay now I that have I that I
have the users I would actually want to
reimburse those users right so we
actually were sending them the ability
to go on the rainbows this users and
when the company was actually using the
platform for company car payments and
for Bank transfers they realized well
why don't we actually run the whole
account payables solution into the
platform so this is how we decide the
value-based pricing and the journey in
our strategy which was very different
from just going for good better best
options and just randomly doing
different features and capabilities to
try to push people into the funnel
and the last thing that I wanted to
mention is that Freeman versus premium
is all about what you optimize in the
long term what kind of company you want
to build is are you fine to be a company
that is doing 20 you know gross profit
which is kind of a on the maybe
supermarkets level gross profits if
you're building a high-tech company we
said we really want we focus on The High
Ground trajectory we definitely want to
go and you know build our way and
solution into that
foreign
[Music]